---
tags:
  - LiteraryWork
  - FriendsFamily
  - Society
  - ArtistsAuthors
aliases:
  - "100034"
---
### Saturday 13 February

There was a great downpour this morning. I am sure however many years I keep this diary, I shall never find a winter to beat this. It seems to have lost all self control. We wrote; & after luncheon L. went to the Library, & I went to a concert at the Queen's Hall. I ran into Oliver Strachey, standing very like a Strachey in the Hall, because he dislikes sitting inside waiting for the music. I got by luck a very good place, for the Hall was nearly full  & it was a divine concert. But one of the things I decided as I listen[ed] (its difficult not to think of other things) was that all descriptions of music are quite worthless, & rather unpleasant; they are apt to be hysterical, & to say things that people will be ashamed of having said afterwards. They played Haydn, Mozart no 8, Brandenburg Concerto, & the Unfinished. I daresay the playing wasnt very good, but the stream of melody was divine. It struck me what an odd thing it was­ this little box of pure beauty set down in the middle of London streets, & people all looking so ordinary, crowding to hear, as if they weren't ordinary after all, or had an ambition for something better. Opposite me was Bernard Shaw, grown a whitehaired benevolent old man, & down in the orchestra was Walter Lamb, shining in his alabastrine baldness like a marble fountain. I was annoyed by a young man & woman next me who took advantage of the music to press each other's hands; & read 'A Shropshire Lad' & look at some vile illustrations. And other people eat chocolates, & crumbled the silver paper into halls. I went to the W.C. at the Tube station, & found a small party going on in that chaste recess. The old woman had a vast female dog which was drinking water out of a tumbler, & her daughters were paying an afternoon call, & we were all very friendly, in odd surroundings- I thought it very sensible to have no false shame. I met L. at Spikings & we had tea, & were very happy; & stopped at Earls Court & called on his mother, but she was out. We were shown into a huge high sitting room, in which was a minute old lady, in semi darkness, sitting on the edge of a sofa. Nothing could have been more forlorn. L. has now got another book of Indian travels from the Times. He had just made up his mind that he was dismissed.