---
tags:
  - FriendsFamily
aliases:
  - "100008"
---
### Friday 8 January

Sydney Waterlow came to lunch with us today 'to make sure' as he put it 'that we had not quarrelled over these wretched matters'. We discussed little else for the first hour & a half. My first letter had given him a sleepless night, he told us, though Mrs Waterlow in spite of pregnancy, slept sound. As far as we could make out, Mrs W. acts & writes impulsively; when Sydney bestirred himself to think, he was appalled to realise that their behaviour was not ethically sound. He cogitated for long, devoted a whole morning to his reply, & has taken the advice of several friends; who happen to agree with him that chimneys are usually swept by landlords. ''But then we should have asked your leave — I entirely yield that point ­ only'' & so on & so on; all in the solid simple style, which is so like him. His fat pink body always seems to me boneless & hairless like that of a gigantic child; & his mind is the same. But there is a charm about him. He & L. went for a walk. I went to Chancellors, to ask whether there was any news of Hogarth. At first the man said no. When I told him that we might take a house in London, he at once confessed that he had twice seen Mrs Wontner, the present tenant, & that she does not like the house. Is this invented, &, if not, is there some good reason why she does not like it? It seems likely that we shall have to choose between Brunswick & Hogarth — unless both fail us. Sydney came back to tea, & told us how Alice had been to see them, & how he had at once regretted her ''as one might regret a very fine walking—stick — She was so pretty & happy with a great fat baby. The house was full of our furniture — like a house of death to me.'' But when I suggested that the present Mrs W. had been uncomfortable he was amazed. ''She isnt that sort of person at all'' he said. ''She's perfectly sensible…'' Still, if she saw Sydney coveting the walking stick, I thought — Sydney replied that Marg. (as he calls her) was so infinitely more to him than the walking stick that she couldn't feel anything of the kind. He went off to Asheham. They want to take it on for another 6 months — He has no work to do, but Asheham is so delightful that he is perfectly happy doing nothing.