---
tags:
  - FriendsFamily
  - Society
aliases:
  - "100004"
---
### Monday 4 January

I do not like the Jewish voice; I do not like the Jewish laugh: otherwise I think (in Saxon's phrase) there is something to be said for Flora Woolf. She can typewrite, do shorthand, sing, play chess, write stories which are sometimes accepted, & she ears 30/ a week as the secretary of the Principal of the Scottish Church in London. And in doing these various arts she will keep lively till a great old age, like a man playing with five billiard balls.

The outside world burst in upon us with a clamor this morning. 1. I had a letter from Mrs. Hallett. 2. I had a letter from Lily. 3. L. had a document from Sydney Waterlow. According to Mrs. Hallett, Lily hid a soldier in the Butler's pantry, she also met soldiers at the gates; & thus Mrs. Hallett's house got a bad name in the village, besides which Mrs. Hallett herself was alarmed 'there being ladies only in the house'. Lily confesses merely to one brother, but adds that Mrs. H. is very ill, as well as very old. As for Sydney's letter — I am so sick of it that I can't describe it. The house was dirty — 4 people scrubbing for a fortnight only succeeded in making it tolerable; & so & so on — all of which would have been suffered in silence but for my note. So I wrote to him, & I wrote to Lily — & after spending some time in phrasing virtuous sentiments nobly, I see clearly how official skins grow thick & shiny. To Lily I said that she must promise to behave better, if I gave her another character — for I am sure poor Mrs. Hallett & her trembling old sister heard soldier voices whenever there was a wind in the laurels. Philip came after luncheon, having 4 days leave. He is sick to death of soldiering — told us tales of military stupidity which pass belief. They found a man guilt of desertion the other day & sentenced him; & then discovered that the man did not exist. The Colonel says "I like well dressed young men — gentlemen" & gets rid of recruits who sink below this level. In addition to this, the demand for cavalry at the front is exhausted, so that probably they will stay at Colchester for ever. Another day, rainy day. An aeroplane passed overhead.